Chapter 6 - Exceptions and Logging

Exceptions are a way of describing exceptional circumstances within a program. They are a way of signaling that
something unexpected (exceptional) has happened. For that reason, exceptions are efficient at interrupting the current
flow of the program and signaling that there is something that requires attentions. As such, programs that judiciously
use exceptions benefit from a better control flow and become more robust. Even so, using exceptions indiscriminately
can cause performance degradation.

Within Java, exceptions are said to be "thrown" and "caught". Throwing an exception involves telling the code that you
have encountered an exception an involves using the throw keyword to signal the JVM to find any code capable of handling
this exceptional circumstance within the current stack. Catching an exception involves telling the compiler which
exceptions you can handle, and on which part of the code you want to monitor for these exceptions occurring. This is
denoted by the try/catch Java syntax (described in recipe 6-1).

All exceptions inherit from Throwable. Classes that are inherited from Throwable are allowed to be defined in the catch
clause of a try/catch statement. The Error classes are primarily used by the JVM to denote serious and/or fatal errors.
According to the Java documentation, applications are not expected to catch Error exceptions as they considered fatal
(think computer being of fire). The bulk of exceptions within a Java program will be inherited from the Exception class.

An important aspect of exceptions is that within the JVM there are two types of exceptions: checked and unchecked.
Checked exceptions are enforced by methods. In the method signature, one can specify what kind of exceptions the method
can throw. This requires any caller of this method to create a try/catch block that handles the exceptions that the
method declared on its signature. Unchecked exceptions don't require such as stringent convention and are free to be
thrown anywhere without enforcing the implementations of a try/catch block. Even so, unchecked exceptions (as described
on recipe 6-6) are usually discouraged because they can lead to threads unraveling (if nothing catches the exception) and
poor visibility of problems. Classes that inherit from RuntimeException are considered unchecked exceptions, whereas
classes that inherit directly from Exception are considered to be checked exceptions.

Be aware that the act of throwing exceptions is expensive (compared with other language construct alternatives), and
as such throwing exceptions makes a poor substitute for control flow. For example, you shouldn't throw an exception to
indicate an expected result of a method call (say a method like isUsernameValid(String userName). It is a better
practice to call the method and return a boolean with the result than trying to throw an InvalidUsernameException to
indicate failure.

Logging within an application helps understand what is happening without the need for debugging the code. This is
specially true in production environments where there isn't the opportunity for live debugging. In that sense, logging
collects clues on what is happening (most likely what went wrong) and helps with troubleshooting production problems. A
solid logging framework with a sound logging methodology will save many late-nights at work wondering "what happened?"

Logging for Java is very mature. There are many open-source projects that are widely accepted as the de fact standard
for logging. In our recipes we will use Java's Logging framework and the Simple Logging Façade for Java (SLF4J). Both of
these projects together create a good-enough solution for most logging needs.


6-1. Catching Exceptions
    Problem: You need to catch an exception from code.
    Solution: Using the built-in try/catch language construct allows you to catch exceptions. In this example, there is
        a functions that returns true/false if a string is shorter than five characters long. If the string passed in is
        null, a NullPointerException is thrown by the length() method and caught by the catch block.
    Source Code: Recipe6_1.java

6-2. Guaranteeing that Cleanup Code Runs, No Matter What
    Problem: You want to write code that executes when control leaves a code segment, no matter whether that control
        leaves due to an error being thrown or the segment ending normally. For example, you have acquired a lock and
        want to be sure that you are releasing it correctly. You want to release the lock in the event of an error and
        also in the event of no error.
    Solution: Use a try/catch/finally block to properly release locks and other resources that you acquire in a code
        segment. In the example, the finally keyword specifies a code block that will always execute, regardless of
        whether an exception was thrown in the try block. Within the finally block, the lock is released by calling
        lock.unlock().
    Source Code: Recipe6_2.java

6-3. Throwing Exceptions
    Problem: You need to account for an exceptional problem by throwing an exception from within your code. You don't
        want the execution to continue on the current code path. You want to abort the execution of the current code
        path by throwing the exception.
    Solution: Using the throw keyword, one can signal the current thread to look for try/catch blocks (at the current
        level and up the stack) that can process the thrown exception. In our example, the callSomeMethodThatMightThrow
        throws an exception if the parameter passed in is null.

6-4. Catch Multiple Exceptions
    Problem: You want to catch multiple exceptions that might happen within a try block
    Solution #1: By using different catch clauses (ordered from the most specific to the most general), you can catch
        multiple exceptions.
    Solution #2: If the code for the different exceptions is the same, in Java 7 you can use the | operator for catching
        multiple exceptions (known as Multi-catching in Java 7).

6-5. Catching the Uncaught Exceptions
    Problem: You want to know when a thread is being terminated because of an uncaught exception such as a
        NullPointerException.
    Solution #1: When creating a Java thread, sometime you may want to catch not only checked exceptions but any type of
        exceptions, at least to properly log them, or "keep going" and avoid termination of the executing thread. To
        that effect, Java allows you to register an ExceptionHandler() either per thread or globally.
    Solution #2: Use the thread's own UncaughtExceptionHandler. Any exception that happens within the thread and that
        has not been caught will be handled by the uncaughtException() method of the UncaughExceptionHandler.

6-6. Managing Resources with try/catch Blocks
    Problem: You need to make sure that if an exception is thrown, the resources that are being used in the try/catch
        block are released.
    Solution: By using the new Java 7 Automatic Resource Management (ARM) feature, you can specify a try-with-resources
        block.

6-7. Creating an Exception Class
    Problem: You need to create a new type of exception.
    Solution #1: By extending RuntimeException, you can create exceptions that are not required to be checked, but
        instead can happen at any time.
    Solution #2: By extending Exception, you create a checked exception that needs either to be caught or rethrown up
        the stack.

6-8. Rethrowing the caught exception.
    Problem: You need to rethrow the same exception type as you caught.
    Solution: Now you can just throw the exception from a catch block, and it will rethrow it on the same type as it was
        caught.

6-9. Logging Events in your Application
    Problem: You like to start logging events, debug messages, and so on in your application.
    Solution: Use SLF4J, along with the Java Logging API to implement you logging solution.

6-10. Rotating and Purging Logs
    Problem: You have started to log information, but the information logged keeps growing out of control. You would
        like to keep the last 250KB worth of log entries in your log files.
    Solution: Use SLF4J with java.util.Logging to configure rolling logs. In this recipe, we get the logger named
        recipeLogger and log many times into this logger. The output will produce rolled log files with the most recent
        logged information in the importantLog0.log file.

6.11. Logging Exceptions
    Problem: You want to be able to record exceptions in your log file.
    Solution: By using SLF4J and try/catch blocks you can log exceptions in your log file.